\ The portions of this file that are from CAL-3040
\ are copyright 2006 by the Osmosian Order.
\ The remainder is copyright 2014, 2017, 2019 by Jasper Paulsen.

\ The status is part of the desktop's pad.
\ The status contains the test results.
\ The status uses menu items to summarize the test results,
\   and show sample test results.

To append the failures from a test result set to another test result set (copying failures):
  Loop.
    Get a test result from the test result set's test results.
    If the test result is nil, exit.
    If the test result is not OK,
      Create a test result called duplicate given the test result;
      Append the duplicate to the other test result set.
  Repeat.

To append a result set to a buffer:
  Append the result set's test results to the buffer.

To append a test result to a result set:
  Append the test result to the result set's test results.
  If the test result is OK, add one to the result set's passed.
  If the test result is not OK, add one to the result set's failed.

To append some test results to a buffer:
  Loop.
    Get a test result from the test results.
    If the test result is nil, exit.
    Summarize the test result returning a string.
    Append the string to the buffer.
    Advance the buffer.
  Repeat.

To check a test result given a string called actual:
  If the actual is the test result's expectation,
    Pass the test result given the actual.
  If the actual is not the test result's expectation,
    Fail the test result given the actual.

To create a test result:
  Allocate memory for the test result.
  Start the test result's timer.

To create a test result (without starting timer):
  Allocate memory for the test result.

To create a test result about a string called context and a string called test name and expecting an expectation:
  Create the test result.
  Describe the test result given the context and the test name.
  Put the expectation in the test result's expectation.

To create a test result called duplicate given a test result:
  Create the duplicate (without starting timer).
  Put the test result's context in the duplicate's context.
  Put the test result's test name in the duplicate's test name.
  Put the test result's expectation in the duplicate's expectation.
  Put the test result's actual value in the duplicate's actual value.
  Put the test result's interpretation in the duplicate's interpretation.
  Put the test result's timer in the duplicate's timer.

To decide if 3-way-match given an expectation and a string and an interpretation:
  If the expectation is not the string, say no.
  If the expectation is the interpretation, say yes.
  Say no.

To decide if one should be hidden given a number and a quota:
  If the number is not 1, say no.
  If the quota is greater than 0, say no.
  Say yes.

To decide if a result set is OK:
  If the result set's passed is 0, say no.
  If the result set's failed is 0, say yes.
  Say no.

To decide if a spot is in the status:
  If the bar's mode is not "normal", say no.
  If the spot is in the status' roundy box, say yes.
  Say no.

To decide if a test result is OK:
  If the test result's interpretation
    Is the test result's expectation, say yes.
  Say no.

To decide if the tests failed:
  If the status' all test results' failed is 0, say no.
  Say yes.

To decide if the tests passed:
  If the status' all test results is OK, say yes.
  Say no.

To decide if the trio shoves the status:
  If there is not room (for the trio), say no.
  Count menu rows returning a count.
  If the count is 1, say yes.
  Say no.

To describe a test result given a string called context and a string called test name:
  Put the context in the test result's context.
  Put the test name in the test result's test name.

To draw the status:
  \ if list or compile or test was requested,
  \ the noodle's to refresh routines will not display anything.
  Unmask everything.
  Draw the status' roundy box with the desktop color and the desktop color.
  Draw the status' roundy box with the black color and the status' color.
  Put the status' roundy box into a box.
  Adjust the box given 1/8 inch and 0 and -1/8 inch and 0.
  Mask outside the box.
  If the status' string is not "",
    Update lingering status.
  If the status' string is "",
    Put the lingering status string in the status' string.
  Draw the status' string in the box
    With the black color and the default font and "right".

To fail a test result given a string called actual:
  \ assumes that the test result's expectation is already populated.
  Put the actual in the test result's actual value.
  Put the actual in the test result's interpretation.

To finalize a result set:
  Destroy the result set's test results.

To finalize the status:
  Finalize the status' all test results.
  Finalize the status' failures.
  Destroy the status' command.

To handle a command (copy test result):
  Put the command's handler in a handler.
  Put "handle test result " in a prefix.
  Get a number from the handler given the prefix.
  If the number is less than 1,
      Debug the handler (because it is undispatched); exit.
  Handle the command given the number (copy test result).

To handle a command (tests failed...):
  Widen the command.
  Create a submenu.
  Put the test quota in a quota.
  Put the status' failures' failed in a number called failed.
  Summarize failure given the failed and the quota returning a string.
  Add the string and "(Click a result to copy it.)"
    And "handle test quota" to the submenu.
  Handle the command given the submenu and the quota
    And the status' failures' test results.

To handle a command (tests passed...):
  Widen the command.
  Create a submenu.
  Put the test quota in a quota.
  Put the status' all test results' passed in a number called passed.
  Summarize success given the passed and the quota returning a string.
  Add the string and "(Click a result to copy it.)"
    And "handle test quota" to the submenu.
  Handle the command given the submenu and the quota
    And the status' all test results' test results.

To handle a command given a number (copy test result):
  Tint the status.
  Show status "Copying...".
  Put the command's name on the windows clipboard.
  Show the desktop with "Copied".

To handle a command given a submenu and a quota and some test results:
  Sort the test results (by jiffies).
  Reverse the test results.
  Put 1 in a number called counter.
  Loop.
    If the counter is greater than the quota, break.
    Get a test result from the test results.
    If the test result is nil, break.
    Summarize the test result returning a name.
    Put "handle test result " then the counter into a handler.
    Add the name and the handler to the submenu.
    Add 1 to the counter.
  Repeat.
  Widen the submenu to the command's width.
  Refont the submenu.
  Handle the command given the submenu.

To handle an event (left click - status):
  If the status' started tests is yes,
    Handle the event (show cached test results); exit.
  Handle the event (regression test).

To handle an event (regression test):
  Put yes in the status' started tests.
  Untint the status.
  Show status "Testing...".
  Test.
  Put "Tests took " then the status' all test results' timer's formatted string
    In a message.
  Show status the message.
  If the current tab is nil,
    Handle the event (show cached test results); exit.
  Summarize the status' all test results returning a string.
  Append the string to a buffer.
  Advance the buffer.
  Append the status' all test results to the buffer.
  Put the module's directory then "test results.txt" in a path.
  Write the buffer to the path.
  If the i/o error is blank,
    Append ".  Saved results." to the message.
  Show status the message.
  If the i/o error is not blank,
    Linger the status;
    Show error the i/o error.
  Handle the event (show cached test results).

To handle an event (requested test):
  If test was not requested, cluck; exit.
  If the status' started tests is yes, exit.
  Put yes in the status' started tests.
  Test.
  If the tests failed,
    Put 1 in the return code.
  Summarize the status' all test results returning a string.
  Append the string to a buffer.
  Advance the buffer.
  If verbose test was requested,
    Append the status' all test results to the buffer.
  If verbose test was not requested,
    Append the status' failures to the buffer.
  Write the buffer to stderr.

To handle an event (show cached test results):
  Tint the status.
  Widen the status' command to 3 inches.
  Put the status' roundy box's right
    Minus the status' command's width
    Into a number called left.
  Put the left into the status' command's roundy box's left.
  Create a submenu.
  Summarize the status' all test results returning a string.
  If the tests passed,
    Add the string and "tests passed..." to the submenu.
  If the tests failed,
    Add the string and "tests failed..." to the submenu.
  Widen the submenu to the status' command's width.
  Refont the submenu.
  Handle the status' command given the submenu.

To handle test quota:
  Put the maximum test quota into a quota called max.
  Ask "Show how many tests (0-" then the max then ")?" with the test quota.
  If the answer is blank, exit.
  If the answer is not any numeric literal,
    Show error "Invalid test quota."; exit.
  Convert the answer to a number.
  If the number is less than 0,
    Show error "Invalid test quota."; exit.
  If the number is more than the max,
    Show error "I can only show 0-" then the max then " tests.  "
      Then the max then " is the best I can do.";
    Put the max in the number.
  If the number is the test quota, exit.
  Put the number in the test quota.
  If the tests passed,
    Handle the status' command (tests passed...); exit.
  Handle the status' command (tests failed...).

To initialize a result set:
  Put 0 in the result set's passed.
  Put 0 in the result set's failed.

To initialize the status:
  Create the status' command.
  Initialize the status' all test results.
  Initialize the status' failures.
  Resize the status.
  Put the green color's lightest shade into the status' pass color.
  Put the red color's lightest shade into the status' fail color.
  Untint the status.
  Put no in the status' started tests.

To linger the status:
  Put the status' string in the lingering status string.
  \ This causes the as-drawn status to linger
  \ until the status' string is changed to a different value
  \ (other than "".)  See also "to update lingering status"
  \ and "to draw the status".

The lingering status string is a string.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a binary logarithm with tolerance a number:
  Convert the number to a tolerance bigint.
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string
    And targeting the binary logarithm's mantissa as a bigint
    With tolerance the tolerance bigint.
  Put the binary logarithm's bits in the fuzzy test's bits.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a bullseye bigint with tolerance a tolerance bigint:
  Start the fuzzy test's timer.
  Put the string in the fuzzy test's context.
  Put the other string in the fuzzy test's test name.
  Put the bullseye bigint in the fuzzy test's bullseye.
  Put the tolerance bigint in the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a bullseye string with tolerance a number:
  Convert the bullseye string to a bullseye bigint.
  Convert the number to a tolerance bigint.
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string
    And targeting the bullseye bigint with tolerance the tolerance bigint.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a mixio with tight tolerance:
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string  
    And targeting the mixio with tolerance 4 trifles.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a mixio with tolerance some trifles:
  Convert the mixio to a premix.
  Convert the trifles to a tolerance bigint.
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string
    And targeting the premix as a bigint
    With tolerance the tolerance bigint.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a ratio with tight tolerance:
  Convert the ratio to a mixio.
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string
    And targeting the mixio with tight tolerance.

To make a fuzzy test about a string and another string and targeting a ratio with tolerance some trifles:
  Convert the ratio to a mixio.
  Make the fuzzy test about the string and the other string
    And targeting the mixio with tolerance the trifles.

The maximum test quota is a quota equal to 15.

To pass a test result given a string called actual:
  \ assumes that the test result's expectation is already populated.
  Put the actual in the test result's actual value.
  Put the test result's expectation in the test result's interpretation.

To put a fuzzy test's maximum into a bigint:
  Put the fuzzy test's bullseye bigint in the bigint.
  Add the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint to the bigint.

To put a fuzzy test's minimum into a bigint:
  Put the fuzzy test's bullseye bigint in the bigint.
  Subtract the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint from the bigint.

To put a fuzzy test's tolerance ratio into a ratio:
  Put the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint into a premix as a bigint.
  Convert the premix into a mixio.
  Convert the mixio into the ratio.
  Reduce the ratio.

To put a test result's timeliness into a string:
  If the test result's timer is imprecise,
    Put "." into the string; exit.
  Cache the test result's timer.
  Put " in " into the string.
  If the test result's timer's cached days are positive,
    Append the test result's timer's cached days
      Then " days." to the string;
    Exit.
  If the test result's timer's cached seconds are positive,
    Convert the test result's timer's cached seconds
      To another string (HH:MM:SS);
    Append the other string then "." to the string;
    Exit.
  If the test result's timer's cached milliseconds are positive,
    Append the test result's timer's cached milliseconds
      Then " ms." to the string;
    Exit.
  If the test result's timer's cached microseconds are positive,
    Append the test result's timer's cached microseconds
      Then " " then the micro byte then "s." to the string;
    Exit.
  If the test result's timer's cached nanoseconds are positive,
    Append the test result's timer's cached nanoseconds
      Then " ns." to the string;
    Exit.
  Put "." into the string.

A quota is a number.

To refont a submenu:
  If the submenu is nil, exit.
  Get a current font.
  Loop.
    Get a command from the submenu's commands.
    If the command is nil, exit.
    Put the current font's name into the command's font's name.
    If the current font's height is at most the command's font's height,
      Put the current font's height into the command's font's height.
  Repeat.

To resize the status:
  Put the bar's display and 1/12 inch into the status' roundy box.
  Put the status' roundy box's bottom minus the command height
    Into the status' roundy box's top.
  Put the trio allowance into a width.
  If the trio shoves the status,
    Put the status' right minus the width into the status' right.
  Put the menu's commands' last's right into the status' left.

A result set has a number called passed,
  A number called failed,
  A timer,
  And some test results.

To show the status:
  \ if list or compile or test was requested,
  \ the noodle's to refresh routines will not display anything.
  Draw the status.
  Refresh the screen given the status' roundy box.

To show status a number and a string or another string:
  Format the number and the string or the other string into a third string.
  Show status the third string.

To show status a string:
  Put the string into the status' string.
  Show the status.

To sort some test results (by jiffies):
  If the test results' first is the test results' last, exit.
  If the test results' first's timer is imprecise, exit.
  Split the test results
    Into some left test results and some right test results.
  Sort the left test results (by jiffies).
  Sort the right test results (by jiffies).
  Loop.
    Put the left test results' first into a left test result.
    Put the right test results' first into a right test result.
    If the left test result is nil,
      Append the right test results to the test results; exit.
    If the right test result is nil,
      Append the left test results to the test results; exit.
    Put the left test result's timer's jiffies into some left jiffies.
    Put the right test result's timer's jiffies into some right jiffies.
    If the left jiffies are greater than the right jiffies,
      Move the right test result from the right test results to the test results;
      Repeat.
    Move the left test result from the left test results to the test results.
  Repeat.

To stash a fuzzy test given a bigint:
  Create a test result (without starting timer).
  Put the fuzzy test's context in the test result's context.
  Put the fuzzy test's test name in the test result's test name.
  Convert the fuzzy test's bullseye bigint into the test result's expectation.
  If the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint is not 0,
    Append " ± " then the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint
     To the test result's expectation.
  Convert the bigint into a string.
  Pass the test result given the string.
  If the bigint is greater than the fuzzy test's maximum,
\    debug the premix then " is greater than " then the fuzzy test's maximum;
    Fail the test result given the string.
  If the bigint is less than the fuzzy test's minimum,
\    debug the fuzzy test's bullseye
\      then " ± " then the fuzzy test's tolerance ratio
\      then "; expected " then the test result's expectation
\      then "; " then the mixio then " is less than " then the fuzzy test's minimum;
\    debug the premix;
\    debug the fuzzy test's minimum;
    Fail the test result given the string.
  Stop the fuzzy test's timer.
  Put the fuzzy test's timer in the test result's timer.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.

To stash a fuzzy test given a binary logarithm:
  Create a test result (without starting timer).
  Put the fuzzy test's context in the test result's context.
  Put the fuzzy test's test name in the test result's test name.
  Convert the fuzzy test's binary logarithm
    And the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint
    Into the test result's expectation.
  Convert the binary logarithm into a string.
  Pass the test result given the string.
  If the binary logarithm's bits are not the fuzzy test's bits,
    Fail the test result given the string.
  If the binary logarithm's mantissa as a bigint
    Is greater than the fuzzy test's maximum,
      Fail the test result given the string.
  If the binary logarithm's mantissa as a bigint
    Is less than the fuzzy test's minimum,
      Fail the test result given the string.
  Stop the fuzzy test's timer.
  Put the fuzzy test's timer in the test result's timer.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.

To stash a fuzzy test given a mixio:
  Create a test result (without starting timer).
  Put the fuzzy test's context in the test result's context.
  Put the fuzzy test's test name in the test result's test name.
  Put the fuzzy test's bullseye bigint into a bullseye premix as a bigint.
  Convert the bullseye premix to a bullseye mixio.
  Convert the bullseye mixio into the test result's expectation.
  If the fuzzy test's tolerance bigint is not 0,
    Append " ± " then the fuzzy test's tolerance ratio
     To the test result's expectation.
  Convert the mixio into a string.
  Pass the test result given the string.
  Convert the mixio to a premix.
  If the premix as a bigint is greater than the fuzzy test's maximum,
\    debug the premix then " is greater than " then the fuzzy test's maximum;
    Fail the test result given the string.
  If the premix as a bigint is less than the fuzzy test's minimum,
\    debug the fuzzy test's bullseye
\      then " ± " then the fuzzy test's tolerance ratio
\      then "; expected " then the test result's expectation
\      then "; " then the mixio then " is less than " then the fuzzy test's minimum;
\    debug the premix;
\    debug the fuzzy test's minimum;
    Fail the test result given the string.
  Stop the fuzzy test's timer.
  Put the fuzzy test's timer in the test result's timer.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.

To stash a test result given a bigint:
  Convert the bigint into a string called actual.
  Stash the test result given the actual.

To stash a test result given a binary logarithm:
  Convert the binary logarithm into a string called actual.
  Stash the test result given the actual.

To stash a test result given a flag:
  Convert the flag into a string called actual.
  Stash the test result given the actual.

To stash a test result given a number:
  Convert the number into a string called actual.
  Stash the test result given the actual.

To stash a test result given a string:
  Check the test result given the string.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.
  Stop the test result's timer.

The status has a roundy box and a string
  And a color and a pass color and a fail color
  And a result set called all test results
  And a result set called failures
  And a command
  And a flag called started tests.

To summarize failure given a number and a quota returning a string:
  Summarize given the number and "failed" and the quota returning the string.

To summarize given a number and a string and a quota returning a string called result:
  If the number is less than 1,
    Put "No tests " then the string then "." in the result; exit.
  If one should be hidden given the number and the quota,
    Put "1 test " then the string then "." in the result; exit.
  If the quota is less than 1,
    Put the number then " tests " then the string then "." in the result; exit.
  If the number is 1,
    Put "1 test " then the string then ".  It was:" in the result; exit.
  If the quota is 1,
    Put the number then " tests " then the string then "."
      Then "  The longest 1 is:" in the result; exit.
  Put the number then " tests " then the string in the result.
  If the number is at most the quota,
    Append ":" to the result.
  If the number is more than the quota,
    Append ".  The longest " then the quota then " were:" to the result.

To summarize given a number and a string returning a string called result:
  If the number is 0,
    Put "No tests " then the string then "." into the result; exit.
  If the number is 1,
    Put "1 test " then the string then "." into the result; exit.
  Put the number then " tests " then the string then "." into the result.

To summarize success given a number and a quota returning a string:
  Summarize given the number and "passed" and the quota returning the string.

To summarize a test result returning a string:
  Summarize the test result returning the string (description).
  Put the test result's expectation in an expectation.
  Put the test result's actual value in a string called actual.
  Put the test result's interpretation in an interpretation.
  Put the test result's timeliness in a timeliness string.
  Append "  Expected '" then the expectation then "'" to the string.
  \ expectation == actual == interpretation => OK
  If 3-way-match given the expectation and the actual and the interpretation,
    Append ", which I got" then the timeliness to the string; exit.
  \ expectation == interpretation != actual => OK
  If the expectation is the interpretation,
    Append ", and got '" then the actual then "'"
      Then ", which is OK" then the timeliness to the string; exit.
  \ actual == expectation != interpretation => not OK, but should not happen.
  If the actual is the expectation,
    Append ", which I got, but it meant '" then the interpretation then "'"
      Then ", so the test failed" then the timeliness to the string; cluck; exit.
  \ actual == interpretation != expectation -> not OK.
  If the actual is the interpretation,
    Append ", but I got '" then the actual then "'"
      Then ", so the test failed" then the timeliness to the string; exit.
  \ all 3 are different.
  Append ", but I got '" then the actual then "'" to the string.
  Append " which is '" then the interpretation then "'" to the string.
  Append ", so the test failed" then the timeliness to the string.

To summarize a test result returning a string (description):
  Put "In " then the test result's context
    Then ", tried " then the test result's test name then "." in the string.

To summarize a test result set returning a string:
  Put the test result set's passed in a number called passed.
  Put the test result set's failed in a number called failed.
  Put the passed plus the failed in a number called total.
  If the test result set is OK,
    Summarize given the passed and "passed" returning the string; exit.
  If the test result set is not OK,
    Summarize given the failed and "failed" returning the string;
    Append "  Just " then the passed then " / " then the total then " were OK."
      To the string; exit.
  Put "The tests have not run yet." into the string.

To test:
  Test (all).
  Append the failures from the status' all test results
    To the status' failures (copying failures).
  If test was not requested,
    Tint the status; exit.

To test (all):
  Start the status' all test results' timer.
  \ noodle subfolder
  Test (the noodle).
  Test (characters).
  Test (arrays).
  Test (colors).
  Test (text).
  Test (ratios).
  Test (trig).
  Test (bigints).
  \ desktop subfolder
  Test (the compiler).
  Test (the desktop).
  Test (font menus).
  Test (the status).
  Test (the finder).
  Test (the editor).
  Test (the writer).
  Test (bonus).
  Stop the status' all test results' timer.
  Test (the testing time).

To test (the status - minimum width):
  Put 1/2 inch in a number called minimum.
  Put "at least " then the minimum in an expectation.
  Create a test result about "the status" and "minimum width"
    And expecting the expectation.
  Convert the status' width into an actual string.
  If the status' width is at least the minimum,
    Pass the test result given the actual.
  If the status' width is not at least the minimum,
    Fail the test result given the actual.
  Stop the test result's timer.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.

To test (the status):
  Test (the status - minimum width).

To test (the testing time):
  Put 10 seconds in a number called maximum.
  Put "at most " then the maximum
    Then " ms" in a string called expectation.
  Create a test result about "the status" and "maximum testing time"
    And expecting the expectation.
  Put the status' all test results' timer's string
    Then " ms" in a string called actual.
  If the status' all test results' timer's total ticks is at most the maximum,
    Pass the test result given the actual.
  If the status' all test results' timer's total ticks is more than the maximum,
    Fail the test result given the actual.
  Stop the test result's timer.
  Append the test result to the status' all test results.

The test quota is a quota equal to 10.

To tint the status:
  If the tests passed,
    Put the status' pass color into the status' color; exit.
  If the tests failed,
    Put the status' fail color into the status' color; exit.
  Untint the status.

To untint the status:
  Put the white color into the status' color.

To update lingering status:
  If the status' string is the lingering status string, exit.
  If the status' string is "", exit.
  Put "" in the lingering status string.

To widen a command:
  Widen the command to the status' roundy box's right
    Minus the bar's display's left.
  Put the bar's display's left into the command's roundy box's left.

To widen a command to a width:
  Put the width into the command's width.
  Put the width plus the command's roundy box's left
    Into the command's roundy box's right.

To widen a submenu to a width:
  If the submenu is nil, exit.
  Loop.
    Get a command from the submenu's commands.
    If the command is nil, exit.
    Widen the command to the width.
  Repeat.
