\ The portions of this file that are from CAL-3040
\ are copyright 2006 by the Osmosian Order.
\ The portions of this file that are from CAL-4700
\ are copyright 2017 by the Osmosian Order.
\ The remainder is copyright 2017 by Jasper Paulsen.

\ The console can be used as a debugging tool,
\ or as a simple text-based user interface.
\ The console is closely associated with the noodle.

The console is a console.

A console is a thing with 
  A box,
  A border color,
  A fill color,
  A text,
  A grid,
  A reply string.

To create a console:
  Allocate memory for the console.
  Put the gray color's lighter shade into the console's border.
  Put the gray color's lighter shade into the console's fill.
  Put the screen's box into the console's box.
  Put the screen's box into a box.
  Subtract the default font's height from the box's bottom.
  Put the box's height divided by the default font's height
    Times the default font's height into a height.
  Put the box's top plus the height into the box's bottom.
  Center the box in the screen's box (vertically).
  Put the box's top into the box's left.
  Subtract the box's top from the box's right.
  Create the console's text.
  Put the box into the console's text's box.
  Set the console's text's wrap flag.
  Clear the console's text's horizontal scroll flag.
  Set the console's text's vertical scroll flag.
  Put the default font's height into the console's grid.
  Multiply the console's grid's x by 2.

To draw a console:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Mask only outside the console's box.
  Draw the console's box with the console's border and the console's fill.
  Draw the console's text.
  Restore the current canvas.

To handle an event given a console:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  If the event's kind is "key down",
    Handle the event given the console (key down); exit.
  If the event's kind is "refresh",
    Handle the event given the console (refresh); exit.
  If the event's kind is "right click",
    Handle the event given the console (right click); exit.
  If the event's kind is "set cursor",
    Handle the event given the console (set cursor); exit.

To handle an event given a console (backspace key):
  If the console's reply is blank, exit.
  If the event is modified, exit.
  Handle the event given the console's text (backspace key).
  Remove the last byte from the console's reply.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (down-arrow key):
  Scroll the console's text down one line.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (end key):
  Scroll the console's text to the bottom.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (enter key):
  Handle the event given the console's text (enter key).
  Relinquish control.

To handle an event given a console (home key):
  Scroll the console's text to the top.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (key down):
  If the event's key is the backspace key,
    Handle the event given the console (backspace key); exit.
  If the event's key is the down-arrow key,
    Handle the event given the console (down-arrow key); exit.
  If the event's key is the end key,
    Handle the event given the console (end key); exit.
  If the event's key is the enter key,
    Handle the event given the console (enter key); exit.
  If the event's key is the home key,
    Handle the event given the console (home key); exit.
  If the event's key is the page-down key,
    Handle the event given the console (page-down key); exit.
  If the event's key is the page-up key,
    Handle the event given the console (page-up key); exit.
  If the event's key is the up-arrow key,
    Handle the event given the console (up-arrow key); exit.
  If the event's byte is not printable, exit.
  Append the event's byte to the console's reply.
  Handle the event given the console's text (printable key).
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (page-down key):
  Scroll the console's text down one page.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (page-up key):
  Scroll the console's text up one page.
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (refresh):
  Show the console.

To handle an event given a console (right click):
  Show the hand cursor.
  Scroll the console given the event.
  Refresh the cursor.

To handle an event given a console (set cursor):
  Show the arrow cursor.

To handle an event given a console (up-arrow key):
  Scroll the console's text up one line.
  Show the console.

To handle events given a console:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Loop.
    Deque an event.
    If the event is nil, exit.
    Handle the event given the console.
  Repeat.

To read a byte from a console:
  Read a string from the console.
  If the string is blank, put the null byte into the byte; exit.
  Put the string's first's target into the byte.

To read a console into a string:
  If the console is nil, clear the string; exit.
  Flush all events.
  Clear the console's reply.
  Show the console.
  Handle events given the console.
  Put the console's reply into the string.
  Flush all events.
  Refresh the cursor.

To read a flag from a console:
  Read a string from the console.
  Convert the string to the flag.

To read a number from a console:
  Read a string from the console.
  Convert the string to the number.

To read a string:
  Read the default console into the string.

To read a string from a console:
  Read the console into the string.

To scroll a console given an event:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Find a sector given the console's grid and the event's spot.
  Loop.
    If the mouse's right button is up, exit.
    Find another sector given the console's grid and the mouse's spot.
    Get a difference between the other sector and the sector.
    If the difference is 0, repeat.
    Scroll the console's text given the difference.
    Show the console.
    Add the difference to the sector.
  Repeat.

To show a console:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Draw the console.
  Refresh the screen given the console's box.
  Restore the current canvas.

To write a string to a console;
To write a string on a console:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Insert the string into the console's text.
  Insert the return byte into the console's text.
  Wrap the console's text.
  Scroll the console's text to the caret.
  Show the console.

To write a string to a console without advancing;
To write a string on a console without advancing:
  If the console is nil, exit.
  Insert the string into the console's text.
  Wrap the console's text.
  Scroll the console's text to the caret.
  Show the console.

To write a string without advancing:
  Write the string on the default console without advancing.
