\ The portions of this file that are from CAL-4700
\ are copyright © 2017 by the Osmosian Order.
\ The remainder is copyright © 2017 by Jasper Paulsen.

\ The terminal is similar to the console,
\ but designed for use with turtle graphics.

To add a quora to a terminal:
  Create the quora.
  Append the quora to the terminal's quoras.
  If the terminal is not full, exit.
  Put the terminal's quoras' first into a doomed quora.
  Remove the doomed quora from the terminal's quoras.
  Destroy the doomed quora.

To clear a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Destroy the terminal's quoras.

To create a quora:
  Allocate memory for the quora.

To create a terminal in a box:
  Allocate memory for the terminal.
  Put the box into the terminal's box.
  Put the green color into the terminal's output color.
  Put the green color's lightest shade into the terminal's input color.

To decide if a terminal is full:
  Put the terminal's height divided by 1/4 inch into a number.
  If the terminal's quoras' count is greater than the number, say yes.
  Say no.

To draw a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Mask only outside the terminal's box.
  Draw and fill the terminal's box with the black color.
  Write the terminal's quoras in the terminal's box.
  Restore the current canvas.

To draw a terminal (last quora):
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Get a quora from the terminal's quoras (backwards).
  If the quora is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Get a quora box given the terminal's box (last quora).
  Mask only outside the quora box.
  Draw and fill the quora box with the black color.
  Write the quora's string in the quora box with the quora's color.
  Restore the current canvas.

To finalize a terminal:
  Clear the terminal.
  Destroy the terminal.

To get a quora box given a box (last quora):
  If the terminal is nil, clear the quora box; exit.
  Count the terminal's quoras returning a count.
  If the count is less than 1, clear the quora box; exit.
  Subtract 1 from the count.
  Put the count times 1/4 inch in a height.
  Put the box into the quora box.
  Put the quora box's top plus 1/4 inch into the quora box's bottom.
  Move the quora box down the height.

To handle an event given a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  If the event's kind is "key down", handle the event given the terminal (key down); exit.
  If the event's kind is "refresh", handle the event given the terminal (refresh); exit.
  If the event's kind is "set cursor", handle the event given the terminal (set cursor); exit.
  If the event's kind is "left click", relinquish control. \ *** added for invisible turtle book questionable

To handle an event given a terminal (backspace key):
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  If the terminal's reply is blank, exit.
  If the event is modified, exit.
  Remove the last byte from the terminal's reply.
  Remove the last byte from the terminal's quoras' last's string.
  Show the terminal (last quora).

To handle an event given a terminal (enter key):
  Relinquish control.

To handle an event given a terminal (key down):
  If the event's key is the backspace key, handle the event given the terminal (backspace key); exit.
  If the event's key is the enter key, handle the event given the terminal (enter key); exit.
  If the event's byte is not printable, exit.
  Append the event's byte to the terminal's reply.
  Append the event's byte to the terminal's quoras' last's string.
  Show the terminal (last quora).

To handle an event given a terminal (refresh):
  Show the terminal.

To handle an event given a terminal (set cursor):
  Show the arrow cursor.

To handle events given a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Loop.
    Deque an event.
    If the event is nil, exit.
    Handle the event given the terminal.
  Repeat.

To initialize a terminal:
  Create the terminal in the screen's box.

To put a terminal in the middle of a box;
To center a terminal in a box:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Privatize the box.
  Indent the box 1/4 inch.
  Put the box into the terminal's box.

A quora is a thing with a string and a color.
\ quora is short for "question or answer"

To read a reply from a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, clear the reply; exit.
  Flush all events.
  Clear the terminal's reply.
  Add a quora to the terminal.
  Put "> " into the quora's string.
  Put the terminal's input color into the quora's color.
  Show the terminal.
  Handle events given the terminal.
  \  show the terminal.
  Put the terminal's reply into the reply.
  Remove any leading noise from the reply.
  Remove any trailing noise from the reply.
  Flush all events.
  \ questionable below
  Create an event.
  Put "left click" into the event's kind.
  Put the mouse's spot into the event's spot.
  Enque the event.
  Refresh the cursor.

To show a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Draw the terminal.
  Refresh the screen given the terminal's box.
  Restore the current canvas.

To show a terminal (last quora):
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Save the current canvas.
  Draw the terminal (last quora).
  Refresh the screen given the terminal's box.
  Restore the current canvas.

To skip a line on the terminal:
  Write "" on the terminal.

The terminal is a terminal.

A terminal is a thing with
  A box,
  Some quoras,
  An output color,
  An input color, and
  A reply string.

To write some quoras in a box:
  \draw the box with the red color and the clear color. \ temp ***
  Put the box into a quora box.
  Put the quora box's top plus 1/4 inch into the quora box's bottom.
  Loop.
    Get a quora from the quoras.
    If the quora is nil, break.
    \draw really fast. ***
    \ draw the quora box with the yellow color. \ temp ***
    Write the quora's string in the quora box with the quora's color.
    Move the quora box down 1/4 inch.
  Repeat.

To write a string on a terminal:
  If the terminal is nil, exit.
  Add a quora to the terminal.
  Put the string into the quora's string.
  Put the terminal's output color into the quora's color.
  Show the terminal.
